Good afternoon, dear colleagues. My name is Oleg Yevgenievich Boksansky.
I am a professor at the Russian Academy of Economics in Plekhanov
and I teach various courses within the framework of the MBA.
The main area of my interest is HR consulting and all the areas of work with staff.
Our meeting today will be devoted to the analysis of various existing scientific approaches
to studying organizational behavior.
The problem here is that there are a huge number of methods, methods of investigation,
and measurement procedures in science.
It is very difficult to determine what is really useful in our activities.
So, the question is pragmatic.
What results can be really useful for us in solving our business tasks?
Our meeting today will be devoted to the attempts to find the criteria
that will allow us to answer the question, as it interests us.
We will start with the analysis of these processes,
what scientific criteria exist in organizational behavior,
how people behave in a company, in a company,
what are their motives, what are their desires,
what are their stereotypes, what are their behavioral patterns,
and how these behavioral patterns can be studied, analyzed,
and, accordingly, used to solve the business tasks that we want.
These are the tasks, the problems, the approaches that our particular company faces.
After that, we will move on to the analysis of how behavioral research is designed.
Now there are a lot of companies that offer services of sociological research,
psychological research, collective psychological climate analysis,
analysis of conflict situations in a collective,
development prospects, building a non-conflict organization, and so on.
How to design this research so that the results are not shared,
but are specific to our company, specific to our specifics, specific to our tasks?
The next question we will consider is related to the collection of data
and the measurements that should be made in the organization.
An organization is, first of all, living people.
We are not robots that can conduct various types of research
so that we do not notice or pay attention to it.
There are certain rules of information collection, behavior rules,
and a certain ethical of research, which we will discuss in a moment.
The next question we will consider is the validity of the results or their justification.
When researchers come to us, they speak their own scientific language.
They say a lot of beautiful terms, concepts, words, draw graphs, diagrams, histograms.
But we are not interested in the scientific framework of these results,
but in how much these results, for which we paid,
will be useful in terms of the competitiveness of our company,
in terms of the development of our company,
in terms of the coverage of the niche of this or that which relates to our business area.
After we consider these elements of scientific knowledge, scientific methodology,
we will move on to the analysis of various directions that exist in organizational behavior.
We will focus our attention on two most promising and most successful directions
that have become popular recently.
These are the cognitive and behavioral directions.
The cognitive direction focuses on the analysis of human thinking abilities.
What does a person think? What motivates a person?
What is the level of his compulsion? What is the level of his achievements?
What criteria can we give to stimulate a person to work better
and, accordingly, make more contribution to the implementation of the goals that lie ahead of our company?
This is a relatively new direction.
The behavioral direction is traditional for business behavior, for the analysis of the organization.
It has existed practically since the beginning of the last century.
And the main task that lies ahead of this direction is to find certain results
that the organization should achieve.
The organization is people. There are no abstract organizations.
Accordingly, how to influence people, how to manipulate them, if you want,
there is nothing wrong with this word, in order to get the desired result,
if we are employers.
This is a behavioral direction.
In literature, you can come across its name as behaviorist.
But this is just not quite the right transliteration.
To be more precise, this is a behavioral direction.
This is the topic of our meeting, which we will talk about today.
So, let's start by analyzing what the scientific method of research is.
Now, it is very often said that there is a scientific method of research.
And in this regard, a lot of attention is paid to different scientific approaches,
scientific schools, scientific research organizations.
And it is believed that if we apply the scientific methods that we have recommended,
they will be useful, including in the activities of our organization.
They will be useful for achieving the goals that lie ahead of us.
And in order for our business results to please us.
As for the scientific method of research, its main feature is the experimental approach.
If we use a scientific approach, it has its own rules.
What are these rules and why do they lead to the desired results?
Why is the scientific approach very successful in solving the tasks that lie ahead of us?
The first question that arises is the problem of formulating the question itself.
We can formulate the question in such a way that we want our company to be in the top rankings by the results of the year.
This is not a scientific approach, because these are common words, common directions, common desires.
The scientific approach is always specific.
And this specificity is its positive side.
The question should be clear.
We want to increase the annual turnover by so many percent.
We want to take third place in any classification that exists in business ratings, and so on.
First of all, the task is to formulate the question that we want to study.
If we do not formulate this question, we will not know what to measure, what to get.
After the question is formulated, a research program is built.
If we want to achieve certain results, without conflict behavior in the organization,
without mutual support, competition, competition within the team,
it is necessary to collect data on what is now in the team, what relations exist now.
Because there are some initial conditions.
These are the conditions that exist in a real organization and the conditions that do not suit us.
If they suited us, we would not invite specialists, we would not contact providers
in order to get some other results.
In order to collect the necessary data, we must build and organize an observation of the processes that occur.
And after this observation occurs, we will have certain data,
certain information about the current situation in our company.
However, as for the scientific approach, it is not limited to such a collection of facts.
When we collect facts, there may be various mistakes, which we will talk about later.
And, accordingly, even if we have obtained some result, it is necessary to check it
or to verify the results.
Are they accidental? Are they not associated with some unforeseen circumstances?
And will the same actions, the same approaches be carried out further?
This verification is a rather complex process.
And we will later consider how to carry it out optimally.
After we have formulated the issue and conducted an observation,
as well as verified the data we have obtained,
we can somehow reformulate the original issue that we have.
We can reformulate it based on the data we have obtained,
because we have reflected the specificity of the organization,
we have reflected the circumstances in which it is located, in which it functions.
And, accordingly, now we already have some idea of the reasons for the failure of the employee's work in this organization,
or we have some hypotheses about how to achieve the goals that are set before the organization.
After this initial set of data is done, we formulate the conclusions
that will be the result of the study.
These conclusions are nothing more than a statement of the situation in the organization
and subsequent development of recommendations on how to correct the situation in the desired growth for the customer.
This is the scientific approach.
We act not from the point of view of intuition,
not from the point of view that someone told us something
or that the same actions are more successfully implemented in some organization.
We base ourselves on specific data, on specific results that we have,
and, accordingly, on these results we build a further development program.
In principle, this is the essence of the scientific approach.
It does not matter what it is used for, for physics or for galaxies,
it is only for specific business processes that interest us in the organization.
Just to analyze all the problems that we have just mentioned,
there is a special section in Nokia called the methodology of research.
The task of the methodology is, first of all, to use certain terms
that will be clear to various people in describing the situation in a particular company.
Secondly, to choose, justify and apply different methods and methods of research in the right way,
and thirdly, to get the desired result.
This is the very result we are talking about.
In this case, the methodology pays great attention to the fact that we always,
if we use the scientific approach, start from some specific facts.
After these facts have been studied, we select certain methods that have already been recommended to us,
which have been tested, which have been successful, which have been justified,
and we try to apply these methods, based on the initial scientific conditions that we received
when analyzing the original data, to this organization.
We try to identify the connections between different events, between different variables,
to understand which connections are dominant, which are significant,
which are secondary and random, which connections need to be strengthened, strengthened, developed,
which connections can be avoided, which connections should not be paid attention to.
But when we are constantly dealing with these issues,
we must always focus on a specific, obtained result.
Science does not act on the principle that there is a goal,
and then we apply certain methods and solutions until we get the result.
In science, there is always a feedback factor.
As we get new and new results, we compare what we have received with the desired result.
How close are we to achieving the final goal?
Maybe we are starting to deviate from this goal.
Where should we stop in order to conduct a research again,
why the results we get are not what we wanted?
Or analyze what the success of certain results is.
This is the task of methodology.
Naturally, as you understand, we talk about this in brief,
as much as we need it in the analysis of organizational behavior,
which we are now discussing with you.
Naturally, our pragmatic goal is to use only those methods,
approaches that are useful to us in our daily business activities.
So, let's now focus our attention on how the observation of organizational behavior is built.
There is an organization, there are people working in this organization.
There are certain tasks that are solved in this organization.
There is a certain schedule, there are certain duties.
And the organization is a coordinated interaction,
a coordinated unity of people performing different functions, different tasks,
but united by a common goal.
The common goal is to achieve the commercial business results that are before the organization.
The first question that arises in this regard is the question of what is the goal of our observation.
Why should we observe?
What characteristics, what points, what parameters?
Choosing these parameters is not an easy and non-trivial task.
Because we, as the leaders of the organization, can be sure that the whole problem is that
employees work poorly, are late for work, that employees do not want to work,
want to get more, and so on.
This is our opinion.
This opinion is very often subjective.
At the same time, the situation may be that employees, for example, do not have enough time
to solve the tasks assigned to them.
The problem may be due to the fact that they are overloaded,
that there is no clear schedule and schedule of their activities.
And in this regard, employees have their own motives, their own approaches.
And if we conduct an observation, then, accordingly, the task is to take into account the interests
and interests of all parties.
This is the advantage of a third-party organization or a provider of external services
that we attract from the outside.
It is not about acting on someone's behalf.
This organization is trying to implement a certain objective approach,
an objective view of the problem, in order to take into account the interests of all parties
and give the desired result that the customer requires.
After we have observed different criteria and different parameters,
what these criteria are and how they are selected, we will talk about this a little later,
a hypothesis is formed.
The hypothesis is, perhaps, the most interesting, the most non-trivial
and the most creative moment of any research.
In the hypothesis, we, in fact, formulate assumptions about the causes of failure,
the causes of stagnation of the company's development
and what steps, what paths are necessary to make in order to get rid of negative layers
and get the desired result,
that is, in the end, to achieve the final result that was set for the company,
that was set for the company.
The hypothesis is a very important value,
because depending on what hypothesis we formulate,
in the future we will be able to justify this hypothesis
and develop recommendations and methods of achieving certain results,
which, in the end, should lead to our original goal –
to achieve the results that were set for us,
the results for which this research was carried out,
the results why we spent money on conducting this research.
When we formulate a hypothesis,
in this case, the need arises to identify certain variables.
There are a huge number of factors that affect a person's behavior,
the success of an organization, the achievement of a particular result.
And, of course, it makes no sense to cover all these factors.
Among these factors, we need to identify the most important,
the most significant,
the effects of which lead to the most significant results
and the most significant changes.
For this purpose, variable studies are allocated.
That is, those facts, those actions, those points, those events,
which are actually observed,
which actually have an impact.
And our goal is to find the most significant factors and variables
that will have an impact on the desired result for us
or will ensure the stable development of a stable functional organization.
Variables can be dependent and independent.
This is the most significant division of variables in any experimental study.
An independent variable is the factor that we consider to be the main factor
in solving all the problems that arise.
That is, in fact, it is the heart of a particular hypothesis.
An independent variable will be what we study.
As an independent variable, you can choose almost any factor.
It can be the salary level, it can be the motivation level,
it can be both the material and non-material motivation level,
it can be the level of personal assessment,
it can be a variety of actions aimed at career growth,
at the functioning of the personnel reserve,
at the assessment, training and development of personnel.
The choice of an independent variable depends on the tasks that we want to solve
and on the hypotheses that we formulate.
The choice of an independent variable is our prerogative.
But if this variable is chosen,
then we are actually signing that this variable is significant
and that is why we will pay attention to it.
The next step after we have chosen an independent variable
is the search for dependent variables.
Different actions, different results, different consequences can depend on one variable.
These consequences can be important, they can be secondary.
If, for example, we increase the salary of an employee,
then the results that he gets should change, increase.
This is a dependent variable in the sense that the impact on it
leads to significant changes in the processes that take place,
in the results that we strive to achieve.
In addition to the independent variable,
such a value as a distorting variable is very important.
Indeed, when we work with people, when we work on solving certain tasks,
there are factors that are directly related to the end results that we should get,
as well as those factors that are situational, random.
For example, today employees received a salary that pleased them,
and therefore they work with inspiration and success.
Tomorrow this will no longer be the case, the day after tomorrow even more so.
Today, this employee received a complaint from the boss,
he is depressed and does not want to work,
or he does not work as usual.
These are so-called distorting variables,
variables that affect the result in a random way,
and are situational, depending on the situation.
Usually they do not manifest, but it so happened that today it works.
These variables must be taken into account.
This is a very difficult issue, because when a study is conducted,
it is conducted on a specific day, in a specific place, in specific conditions.
And it is a very important circumstance to separate the dependent and independent variables from the distorting ones.
What should those people who conduct this study do?
Moreover, when they give you their study results,
they should mention those variables that may have had a distorting effect on the study results.
This also applies to the hypothesis that we have already discussed.
The fourth variable is the indirect variable.
As for the indirect variable, it is an auxiliary variable.
This variable, with the help of which we get additional ways of influencing the dependent variable.
The variable with which we enhance or, on the contrary, block, neutralize the distorting variable.
These are also situational variables,
but the indirect variables are very often used to neutralize or get rid of the negative or positive,
but still third-party influence of the distorting variable.
Of course, we will not, but this is not our task, to analyze how these variables are typed,
how they are built, what questions are asked.
This is a task that is decided by the provider conducting the study.
But we, as customers of the study, as users and consumers of its results,
should keep in mind what to pay attention to when we receive a report,
where there are a lot of beautiful scientific words.
In addition to variables, when we conduct a scientific study,
the definition of the term that is present in this definition plays a very important role.
And as for the experimental study,
here we should pay attention to the operational definition.
We do not need definitions that are in different kinds of encyclopedias.
These are scientific definitions, they are correct, they are good,
but these definitions are still too abstract.
We do not know how to apply these definitions specifically to our goals.
We are interested in the so-called operational definition,
the essence of which is that the process is described,
with which the variable is measured.
Any experiment, any observation is a measurement.
A measurement that allows for verification,
a measurement that allows for the process and procedure of studying a new result.
Accordingly, the operational definition is a list of methods of measuring our variable.
After the variables are selected, determined and placed,
the next task arises in the study of who to observe,
which employees, which managers, which processes, which interactions.
After all, if we look at the interaction of people,
they are completely diverse during the day.
People can talk about work, people can talk about personal problems,
people can talk about plans, people can talk about difficulties.
And accordingly, a problem arises.
What is significant in observation?
Where are those significant components, those significant approaches
that need to be noticed, that need to be analyzed,
and that contain significant information, and not secondary or insignificant.
The definition of the structure of observation,
the definition of the object of observation is a very important task.
And when we get the results of the observation,
it is written what the object of observation was,
what the object of observation was, who was observed,
and what characteristics of this object were observed.
What characteristics of a person, his personal qualities,
his emotional qualities, his emotional sphere.
Why was the observation carried out?
In order to identify whether the desired results were obtained as a result of the study,
from the point of view of solving the task that was set.
The next task, which consists of the analysis of the experimental procedure,
the observation procedure,
is where to conduct the observation, the place of observation.
We can consider the office, we can consider the back office,
we can consider the front office,
we can consider the actions of any department,
the sales department, the legal department,
the administrative and economic department,
we can consider the department of management, accounting, and so on.
Each part of the organization contributes its necessary contribution to the implementation of the common goals.
Accordingly, if we conduct an observation of the organization,
we need to take into account all these variables,
all these sections, structures, functional elements that exist in the organization.
Therefore, when constructing an observation,
when describing it, when planning it,
the problem of where it is carried out also has a significant importance.
The next question that arises here,
and what we have already talked about during the analysis of the methodology,
how to conduct an observation.
This is a very important question.
Indeed, imagine that there is a team where people have known each other for a long time,
in which they work,
and suddenly someone comes,
who says that this is the investigator,
who will, accordingly, observe your work
in order to then give recommendations on how you work.
And you understand what the attitude to this person will be.
People will stop working,
they will sit and think how to behave,
what this person will write,
and what will it lead to.
That is why the situation of such an external observation is practically hopeless.
We will never see what we want to see.
We will see the desired reaction,
we will see some kind of artifact, artificial behavior,
but from the beginning unnatural behavior of people.
Therefore, when various types of observations are carried out,
the method of their conduct arises.
The methodology of observation.
The most common method is called the included observation.
A new person is admitted to your unit,
and it is said that from today a new employee is working for us.
And accordingly, we do not consider him as a certain eye,
a certain eye, a certain eye that looks at us
in order to then tell about our shortcomings, our difficulties.
We have certain relationships,
they can be positive, they can be negative,
but nevertheless, these are working relations.
And this person who is carrying out this observation
is an included observer.
He is included in the team,
and accordingly, being included in this team,
he sees all the real relationships that exist,
all the real advantages, disadvantages, difficulties,
problems that arise here.
This is the most optimal type of observation.
Only one difficulty arises here.
After all, the person we include in the team
must be a specialist in the work of the team.
If, for example, we put a psychologist in the accounting department,
well, I think here you immediately understand
that it will become very clear very quickly
that the person is incompetent.
And immediately there is a suspicion about what he is doing here.
Therefore, the problem of included observation,
the most optimal observation,
is far from simple and perhaps one of the most difficult.
Again, when we conduct an observation,
we need to know why to observe,
what we have already talked about.
That is, you need to have an observation program.
This observation program, of course,
is made up of all kinds of observations,
and then it is already agreed upon
and approved by the customer of the observation.
Is it really necessary to look at those or other criteria?
Or we missed something, we did not take something into account.
The problem is that if we order an observation,
then we put the conditions that are implemented in this observation.
And, accordingly, we need to have a general understanding
and general idea of the variables that are implemented,
of the operational definitions that will be presented in this study,
about where the analysis is carried out, how it is carried out.
The next question that arises in this regard
is the reliability of the results obtained.
Because in this case we face two situations.
The first is the so-called field observation.
This is just the most complex type of observation,
which we have already talked about.
We observe people in natural conditions,
during their working day,
in their everyday relationships,
in their everyday work,
in their everyday life,
with their everyday mistakes,
with their everyday achievements.
Moreover, we observe, being in this team.
People do not do something on purpose
in order to achieve some result.
People just work.
And we can briefly look at the real working conditions that arise here.
This is the best type of observation,
the best type of experimentation,
because from a pragmatic point of view,
it is exactly what we are interested in.
We really see what is happening.
But, unfortunately, it is not always so easy.
If, for example, we have a large organization
with 300,000-500,000 employees,
then you understand perfectly well
that it is quite difficult to observe all of them.
In principle, for us to focus our attention
and be able to observe people,
it is no more than 5, 7, 9 people.
But if we have 500 people in the organization,
then, accordingly, we need 100 observers.
Naturally, this is an unjustified result.
Therefore, from observing in the field conditions
we move on to observing in laboratory conditions
or laboratory experiments.
The situation is that, for example,
the leadership of the organization,
the head of the department,
indicates to us the most key employees,
who, from their point of view,
make the most significant contribution to the work of this unit
and achieve the result.
And then we ask them to help us
to get the desired results.
We can conduct surveys with them.
We can conduct observations with them
of their daily work.
Moreover, they will know that we are observers.
This is a laboratory experiment.
It is naturally different from observing in the field conditions
because these are artificial conditions.
Naturally, as we have already said,
if I know what is watching me,
I will try to behave as it should be
and to present myself in the best possible light.
I will not behave as I do every day.
But we often do not have other ways
to get the necessary information.
After all, the goal of any research is to get the desired result
in a rather short period of time.
That is, to satisfy the requests of the customer
to fulfill the tasks that were set for us.
From this point of view,
laboratory observation is the simplest,
the fastest, and the most convenient way
to get the desired results.
But it is also the most passionate.
Because a person, again, I would like to draw your attention to,
will strive to do what he should do
and to present himself in the best possible light,
not how he really does it,
how he really scolds his subordinates,
what expressions he uses,
what he pays attention to.
This is how observation is planned,
how a scientific experiment is built,
and what should and can be paid attention to
in the results of this experiment.
Let's move on to the next question,
which is related to the processing of the results of the experiment.
Look, we have considered four types of variables.
We talked about the fact that hypotheses are assumptions
that we build.
We talked about the pros and cons of observation,
about the importance of observation,
about the importance of observation.
Of course, we are talking about a lot of random factors,
which we would like to get rid of,
because random factors are what arises unexpectedly,
and we still want to build
some organized behavior structure,
some stable, standard behavior structure,
which is not necessarily a result of the experiment.
And we want to build a certain structure of behavior,
some stable, standard structure,
which will allow us to consistently,
intentionally, constantly get the desired results.
In order to solve this problem,
there is, in science, perhaps, the only method
that is suitable for this,
it is the method of statistics, of statistical measurements.
How do the results show up?
The results are practically mathematical.
If we have a large number of random events,
then these events are subject to certain laws.
They are subject to the so-called normal distribution curve,
which you can see on this slide.
No matter what random events occur,
no matter what the results are,
they will still be subject to this curve.
This curve is characterized by the fact
that all the results,
no matter what the random results are,
they all fit into a certain level of statistical significance,
which you see on this slide.
And, accordingly, we can always be sure
that these results are the result of the experiment,
which is always with a corresponding degree of probability,
up to 99.72%, as you can see on the slide.
We can be sure that these results will be reliably reliable.
However, it should be borne in mind
that in this case we are talking about correlational dependencies.
There are two types of dependencies, as we have already said,
correlational and causation-related.
The causation-related dependency suggests
that a particular event necessarily leads to the corresponding consequence.
But usually this never happens in real life.
Therefore, in real life we have to work with different types of correlations.
A correlation is a statement that
if a particular event occurs,
then a particular consequence will most likely occur.
There is a certain connection between two events.
But this is not a definite connection.
The event may, in turn, occur, or may not occur.
We can find $100 on the street by accident,
or we can not find it.
The probability here is about 50 to 50.
Either we find it or we don't.
And each of us can remember from his life
that different events have occurred.
So, they occur in the life of each person.
Some are more successful, some are less successful.
But if we take a large number of people
and average these events,
all these averages will still fall into this normal distribution curve.
As for experimentation and scientific approach,
it should be borne in mind that
scientific approach almost never looks for causation-related connections.
Scientific approaches, the hypotheses we talked about,
the variables we looked at,
serve to establish different kinds of correlations
and find the correlations that will be most often implemented,
which will be the most successful, and therefore the most desirable.
In this regard, there is a need to consider
different kinds of variables that arise here,
which we will do a little later.
Another very important method,
again, a statistical method of analysis of different results,
is meta-analysis.
We can consider different processes using different methods.
For example, the success of the organization's functioning.
We can study it using sociological methods,
psychological methods, organizational methods.
And the same process, for example,
the growth of sales in the department of sales can be studied from different points of view.
We will get different results describing the same process,
the same result, the technology of sales.
When we get several quantitative results of the same process,
we can try to summarize them
in order to identify some common characteristics.
This is exactly what the meta-analysis procedure serves for,
as a quantitative assessment of various methods of study,
various procedures for measuring the same process.
Meta-analysis can be represented in different ways.
Factor analysis, correlation analysis, dispersion analysis.
This is all described in different textbooks.
This is what we should only know,
but not to delve into,
because it consists of quite interesting, refined mathematics.
When we get the results of the study,
we are primarily concerned with the validity of these results.
The concept of validity and reliability of experimental results
is a key criterion with which we, as customers,
should assess the results provided by the provider
as a result of the study.
We have already talked about the fact that
if we use a scientific method for the analysis of results,
its distinguishing feature is verification.
Our results are checked.
As for verification,
validity and reliability are the main characteristics
of the analysis of this verification.
Validity is the justification of the result of the experiment.
Let's say we ordered the provider
to study the level of conflict in the team.
And the provider instead provides us with a report
that contains the characteristics of the motivation of the team members.
We get completely different results
from the analysis we made for the customer.
That is, this result is invalid.
We conducted the study, got good results,
developed the motivation, but we were not interested in it.
We were interested in the conflicts.
The results were invalid.
Validity is a very important feature
and it reflects the analysis process from different sides.
There is a structural validity.
As for structural validity,
its essence is that the questions asked in the survey,
the questions that are present in the tests,
are really aimed at the analysis of the criteria we set.
In this example, it is the conflict, not the motivation.
In addition to structural validity, there is also content validity.
Any survey, any test includes a large number of questions.
There can be 10, 20, 50, 100 and more.
Content validity reflects whether each of these questions
will really relate to the tasks that are before the survey.
Or some of these questions are secondary,
do not concern the interest of the problem.
And the third option of validity is the criterion validity.
We have already said that if we study a certain behavior,
we must agree on the criteria for describing this behavior.
On the variables, dependent, independent, and so on.
Criterion validity reflects that
the variables selected are studied in this survey,
in this test material.
Here are three main types of validity.
The first type is structural validity, the second is content validity, and the third is criterion validity.
And again, it is these questions that we should pay attention to
when analyzing the results of the survey that we are given.
But validity is only the first and very important feature
of the survey conducted in the verification process.
The second feature is reliability.
Reliability is essentially the reproducibility of the results of the survey.
That is, how much did we manage to avoid the behavior of distorting variables in our study?
How successfully did we select the independent variable?
How well did we calculate the correlation relationships
that exist between the dependent and independent variables?
Where did the intermediate variables that exist here interfere?
There are different ways to check the reliability.
Again, we will not consider all these methods.
We will consider the most important ones,
those pragmatic methods that are very often used in the analysis of organizational behavior.
The simplest way to check the reliability is a repeated test.
We conducted a test of a particular selection of people.
And in order to make sure that the results we got are really reliable,
really correct, we conduct a repeated test of the same selection on the same test.
Yes, there are difficulties here, because people can remember the questions,
and it can be boring and uninteresting to answer the same questions a second time.
But if we still want to be sure of the result that we are given,
then we have to pay for reliability, as for everything in life.
The next way to check the reliability is the analysis of internal compatibility.
Again, if we consider our example with the analysis of conflict,
we must be sure that the questions that are in the questionnaire
really study the conflict on different sides.
They contain both conflict, motivation, emotions, level of achievement, and level of compulsion,
that all questions are set in a uniform rhythm.
This is the internal compatibility of questions,
which is closely related to the same criteria and substantive validity.
All these criteria are naturally tied to each other, and this is the scientific approach.
There are many ways to justify and verify the result that we get.
There are other methods of evaluating reliability, but they are not very important.
Again, we get the results of the study so that we know what to ask
and what to pay attention to from the provider who conducts this study.
The third very important question, in addition to the validity and reliability of the results,
is the possibility of generalization of the results of the study,
the possibility of generalization and the possibility of their distribution in the situations that have not been analyzed.
We can consider the same conflict in accounting.
But in addition to accounting, we have the legal department,
we have the sales department, we have the financial department,
we have the department of the registration of certain transactions.
There are also conflicts.
If a study is really conducted that answers the questions about the reasons for the conflict in this organization,
then the results obtained in accounting should be able to be distributed to the sales department,
to the administrative department and other departments.
That is, we will not conduct the same study in other departments.
Having received the result, we will try to summarize this data
so that the points allocated to us are applicable to the organization as a whole.
This is generalization.
The most difficult and perhaps the most subtle point,
because when we conduct a study,
we, as we have repeatedly noted, must consider the specifics that exist in a particular department.
Nevertheless, generalization allows us to go beyond this specificity.
Accordingly, these are the three main characteristics of verification.
Validity, reliability and generalization.
These are the characteristics that must be presented in the report of the study that we receive.
In this regard, a very important issue is associated with the ethics of conducting the study.
As for the Western approaches,
the ethics of the study plays a significant role there.
Because when we receive certain results,
we, the employees, must be sure that these results will not be used against them.
These results are not aimed at getting rid of the unwanted,
getting rid of those who do not fit into the team.
These results are aimed at optimizing the company's activities,
optimizing the company's activities.
Accordingly, these results will not be used against people who participated in the study.
This is the most subtle point.
Moreover, if all questions of ethics of the study have long been prescribed in the West,
then as for the ethical tradition,
it is unfortunate to note that often the concerns of employees about the fact that all these results,
all these surveys that they have filled out can be used against them, do not come true.
Often this is exactly the contradiction that employees make with one or another study conducted in the organization.
These are all those ethical issues that constantly arise in the relationship between people.
And the level of their development indicates the maturity of the organization,
its prospects, its stability, and its reliability.
The next issue that should be discussed and considered
is the tests and testing that are carried out in the organization.
What does this mean?
Despite the fact that we have talked a lot about hypotheses,
about various kinds of variables, about validity, about reliability,
about different methods and methods of organizing behavior analysis,
about methods, about one or another topic of its study,
it is still worth noting that the most common, the most common method of research
is not observation as the most optimal approach to solving the tasks that are set,
but still testing.
Just because testing is quite simple.
There are certain tests, and reliability, validity, standardization of these tests
have already been tested many times in different organizations, and they are processed in different ways.
As for the tests, there are a large number of methods used.
Again, if we are talking about a scientific approach,
the methods that are used are a set of already recommended tests,
which are valid, reliable, and standardized.
The problem is that very often in tests, there is a panacea,
that if a person passes a certain test, we can get complete information about him.
This is not the case.
A test is nothing more than a tool,
and a tool that can be used in the hands of an experienced person,
that is, in the hands of that person, that interpreter,
who can get and analyze the data that is given from this test in one way or another.
A test itself usually does not contain objective information about a person.
And there is a tendency that the test never gives itself.
It always gives the so-called battery of tests, or several tests,
which purposefully pursue the goal of identifying those or other characteristics of a person,
which may be useful, harmful, neutral, or useless for work.
In this sense, when we talk about organizational behavior,
tests are very often used as an analysis of already working employees,
in order to be able to make a judgment about how loyal the team is,
how successful the team is, how motivated the team is to work,
how much the team is really able to achieve the goals set for it.
But most often, tests are used in the reception of work.
Usually, in the arsenal of any HR specialist, HR manager of a serious company,
there is a certain set of tests that are standard for any company
that is subject to the applicants for a certain vacancy.
As for testing, in the hands of skilled people, it can really be substantive.
But again, it should not be forgotten that even live people are always responsible for the test.
They can worry about this typical situation if a person comes to work.
These people can be in a hurry, they can be busy,
if we are talking about employees who are already working.
Because what concerns testing, it is an additional load that is put on them,
and very often this testing is carried out outside of working hours,
that is, due to personal time of employees.
This is also a very common situation,
which immediately negatively adjusts the most loyal employee to the very testing procedure.
Instead of me going home after working a whole working day,
I sit down and start answering questions.
A good test is at least 100 questions.
All these tests, 10, 15, 20 questions that we very often see on the last covers of glossy magazines or newspapers,
this is not a test, this is just a fun.
As for the real test that will give us the objective results we need,
a test that will give us results on the basis of which we will be able to implement
and identify any non-correlational connections,
these are tests that will contain 100, 200, or even more questions,
depending on the tasks that we have.
Usually, when analyzing organizational behavior, when taking on the job,
four different types of tests are used.
There may be more of them, but now we will just focus on those that are used most often
and which are most common.
The first test is the ability test.
Again, it is not worth thinking that if a person has answered these tests,
then you can say for sure whether he has the ability or not.
Rather, these are tests on the ability of a person to apply the knowledge and skills he has
to solve the tasks that are put before him.
It is from the point of view of the ability to apply one's knowledge
that any employee is evaluated.
The ability tests are divided into tests of general abilities,
where we are talking about the ability to concentrate attention, memory,
the ability to find creative solutions in non-standard situations,
and tests of special abilities that concern the need to perform a person's particular activity.
If we are talking about an accountant, then it could be a test of attention.
If we are talking about a manager, then it could be a test of organizational behavior,
social skills, and so on.
Accordingly, the ability tests are the first tests that are given to an employee or a candidate
on a particular vacancy in order to assess his compatibility with the competencies
that are present in this position.
The next type of tests that are used are the so-called personal tests.
As for the personal tests, in this case, we will talk about the need to analyze
a person's personal qualities.
A person has a lot of personal qualities, and various researchers,
scientific researchers, offer different tests and highlight different qualities.
We will talk about the so-called big five personal qualities,
which you can see on the slide.
These are the personal qualities that are most traditionally highlighted
by employees both in the employment and in the working place.
The goal of this task is to identify personal characteristics that a person assesses
not from the point of view of his professional skills.
This is more about the ability tests and professional skills tests,
which we will talk about a little later.
In this case, it is about personal characteristics, character, temperament,
ability to establish communication, ability to avoid conflicts,
ability to overcome conflicts, ability to work in certain situations.
As for the big five, it covers all the qualities that are necessarily present
in a variety of research.
It is not necessary that they will be called as it is presented on the slide.
The main thing is that in this case we are talking about these orientations,
these approaches and these methods of human behavior.
The first one is about order, but not about significance.
Order does not matter here.
The second one is about friendship, that is, the ability of a person
to communicate in a non-conflicting way in the organization in which he is.
The ability of a person to be communicative and, accordingly,
to organize professional activity according to the tasks,
but not according to his personal stereotypes.
Ambitions are a good thing, but they should be appropriate.
The next personal trait that I study with these tests is
intellectual and cultural openness to new experience.
A person comes to work in any organization and, of course,
he faces some new tasks, new conditions, new requirements,
both for himself and for others.
Accordingly, a person should be able to adapt.
Someone does it easily, someone does it hard.
So-called rigid, tough people to change.
Since we are always in a changing situation,
we should be ready to use and study new methods of work,
new methods of functioning, as well as to reflect
those or other cultural changes that are taking place.
Again, as an example, we can assume that such professions,
such specialties were very culturally in demand before,
which were associated with scientific research,
old disputes between physicists and engineers, and so on.
Now the situation has changed.
Now these criteria are no longer in demand.
Now business criteria are in demand, business competition criteria,
the criteria for the purpose, for the result,
the criteria for the ability to achieve specific results,
the criteria for the purpose, for the ability to achieve goals,
a variety of criteria for choosing means and methods
for achieving these goals.
These are already cultural things,
their assessment changes depending on the changes
that take place in the culture.
Very often, this is why most people who were successful
or, let's say, satisfied with their social status,
which they had before,
do not fit into the new social reality at the moment
and are forced to either change,
or go to another job,
or list all the shortcomings that arise in society.
The next characteristic that is important in personal tests
is the presence of self-control.
Indeed, when we fall into any organization,
we are forced to obey the rules of normal business behavior
to the conditions, to the norms of that corporate culture,
to that corporate spirit,
and to the functions of that corporate mission
that are already present in this organization.
We could come from another organization
where we are used to a different way of behavior,
where we are used to a different way of contact,
to a different way of interaction.
For example, very often there are bureaucratic problems
where in the previous organization it was easy to get a signature from the manager.
In the new organization where I work,
I have to submit a certain amount of paperwork
and wait for a certain time until I get a signature or a refusal.
This may not please me,
but if a person has joined a new organization,
he must follow its rules.
Then these rules can be discussed.
Then these rules can be proposed and changed.
But still, a person must understand
that being in a certain organization,
he works, acts and works according to its rules.
This is a function of self-control.
Very often, the problems and difficulties that arise in this situation
are associated with the inability of a person to have this particular personality quality.
The next feature, which is very important from the point of view of a personal test,
is the energy of a person.
How energetic is a person?
How active is he?
Is he an extrovert or an introvert?
An extrovert is an activist.
This is a person who gets involved in any activity
and does something until he gets some result.
Fast or slow?
High quality or low quality?
But here we are talking about the result.
An introvert, on the contrary, is a thinker.
Before he does something,
he will think for a long time.
He will anticipate certain consequences,
anticipate certain results.
And after a long time,
the introvert will start doing something.
First, he must calculate everything.
Of course, depending on the situation,
on the sphere of activity that the company is engaged in,
a person's personality qualities may or may not fit.
If this is a broker who must react immediately to changes in the rating,
then it will be very difficult for the introvert.
And it is really worth thinking
whether it is worth taking an introvert instead of a broker.
This is the place of an extrovert.
First, get involved, and then we will figure it out.
If we are talking about analysts,
financial analysts, business analysts,
then this is, of course, the area of ​​the actions of introverts.
This is the area of ​​analysis.
I must calculate possible paths, possible approaches.
And this is not the situation
when I first get involved, and then we'll see.
This is not what analysts are for.
Well, as for the fifth personality characteristic,
which is understood,
again, it is just the last in order, but not in significance,
this is the emotional stability of a stable person.
Modern business is always a stressful thing.
Business is always stressful, especially in domestic conditions.
And business is very often working in uncertain conditions.
Business is in a tough time shortage.
Accordingly, if a person knows how to cope with a stressful situation,
knows how to behave in a stressful situation,
he becomes an irreplaceable employee.
And if a stressful situation knocks a person out of the rut,
and he does not know what to do,
then, accordingly, perhaps he is not suitable
for solving the tasks that are prescribed
in the regular schedule,
in the vacancy he claims.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact
that this big five is called the big five,
because it is the most frequently used,
the most frequently met and tested,
pragmatically proven significance for a business of a personality characteristic.
Naturally, there are others.
But in each case,
you just need to look at how successful the results are
for your company when selecting an employee
using these or other tests.
The next type of tests is the so-called honesty tests.
In this case, this name causes people to have a wrong association.
This is not about whether you are honest or a liar.
In this case, it is about the loyalty of a person.
How loyal is a person to the company,
and how much will he benefit the company.
In this case, honesty is meant from the point of view of loyalty and competence for a person.
But not honesty as we are used to call it in the usual sense of the word,
like lying or deception.
This is exactly the situation when it is very important to understand
the operational definition of honesty that is given in this case.
And when we talk about tests,
here it is the operational definition that is given,
because each test is a specific procedure
for measuring certain qualities.
And no matter how funny it sounds,
at first, the honesty test is just a test for the procedure of answers
to the questions of the corresponding test,
from the point of view of corporate loyalty, corporate compatibility,
from the point of view of finding your place in one or another organization.
The next tests that have recently received a fairly wide spread
are the tests of professional skills.
What is this case about?
Very often, what happens?
A person comes to work and is given a trial period of three months,
if this is a private position,
six months, if this is a top position.
And during these three or six months,
during this period, the supervisor observes
whether a person copes with the responsibilities that are imposed on him,
or he does not cope with them.
After all, this is a fairly long period
during which the compatibility of this person is identified.
As for the tests of professional skills,
they are trying to solve the task of reducing these periods.
These tests are designed to understand
how successful a person is in solving the tasks that lie ahead of him,
what his professional competence is,
how much his skills correspond to the list of competencies
that he must satisfy.
As for these tests, they are very often implemented in the form of various cases.
A person is given a typical task
with which he may face,
take on a particular position,
and it is considered how a person will solve this task.
Then the method of expert assessment is used,
and the experts will decide in one way or another
whether the method proposed to these people is suitable for solving the task,
whether the terms proposed to these people are suitable for solving the task,
whether disorganization is introduced into the work of any new team
under this method of solving the task.
That is, instead of spending six months,
you understand that the higher the person's duty, the greater the cost of error.
So, in order not to spend six months in order to determine
whether a person's professional place corresponds to the task or not,
this test is usually carried out during the day,
for two or three days.
That is, all tests, it must be said,
scientific tests, usually take a long time.
This is not what I sat down and answered.
So, accordingly, two or three days are spent,
sometimes even up to a week,
but this period is enough to draw a conclusion
whether a person will successfully cope with these or those professional actions,
or not.
These are the tests that are usually used.
But again, it is necessary to understand that these tests are no more than
a way to get preliminary information about a person,
about people working in an organization.
This is a way to build a hypothesis.
It makes no sense to demand a definite result from a test.
Yes or no.
As for tests, there may be various errors, measurements, various errors.
And these errors can have a significant impact on the results.
Let's look at the next slide, which concerns experimental errors.
These are experimental errors in both tests, including experiments and observations.
What we talked about.
This is a kind of generalization of the previous material.
There may be different sources of errors.
They may be found in the test itself.
If the criterion of reliability, validity, and standardization is lacking,
these errors may be found in the person himself.
He is worried.
He feels bad.
He is hungry.
He is not in the mood today and does not want to answer the various results of the test.
He considers this test as a distrust of himself and as a further way to get rid of it.
All that we talked about in the study.
The source of the error may be the situation.
Again, a person is in a hurry somewhere.
The person has the last day before vacation.
The person has the last day before some kind of celebration.
And he is forced to answer these tests.
This will also have an impact on them.
In addition to the source of errors, errors can be constant, as we have already noted, and unpredictable, random.
If we take the same test, then very often, and I have no doubt that you, the person responsible for the test,
could see typographical errors in this test.
Moreover, these would be errors in the questions themselves.
This can be laughed at.
It is much more dangerous when typographical errors occur in the test processing.
And when we are here, we can get an incorrect result precisely because of the incorrectly typed key.
As for the person, any person, no matter how confident he is, no matter what level of ambition he has,
when the test is taking place, he is always afraid of this test.
He does not know his results.
This is a situation of uncertainty.
And there is nothing more dangerous for a person than a situation of uncertainty.
He always does not know what consequences this will have for him.
Well, as for the situation of constant errors, who?
The very fact of the presence of the fact that there are many people in the room who answer these or those tests
leads to the fact that I start to worry.
I start to think, if I answered worse than these people, if I answered incorrectly.
I start to look at how they answer to match their answers with their answers.
Here is the external factor.
Again, this is a constant error.
The very fact that a group of people is being put in order to conduct the test
is already the factor that leads to a red-hot error.
These are the constant and distorting variables, by the way, that can be predicted and which are known.
But there are also a lot of random errors.
Again, if we are giving a test that is carried out on some material,
then these materials can be of different degrees of clarity.
We have mixed materials, received copies, and some copies are blurred.
I spend time to read, to understand.
This is, again, unnecessary excitement or I consider it as disrespect to myself.
That the neighbor was given a good option of questions, and I was given, and I can't figure it out.
So the neighbor will be evaluated better than me.
This is a completely random and predictable error.
This is my subjective opinion, it just happened so.
But it will affect the results.
Again, a random error.
If a person thinks about something else, for example, an accountant thinks that he will be given a report to the Tax Inspection tomorrow,
and here instead of doing it, he is given some tests.
I think about something else, I have a completely different direction of thought.
And, of course, I'm not interested, I'm just very carefully putting answers to questions on tests.
And, of course, the result will be inadequate.
Well, again, as for random errors, testing is carried out.
And there is some noise on the street, and cars are driving on the street, and music is playing on the street.
And, of course, it distracts my attention.
I leave the test to what arbitrarily distracts my attention.
These are the errors that are really random, which are impossible to predict.
But they must be taken into account to get the result.
So, let's sum up the preliminary results that concern the scientific method, the scientific methodology that we discussed.
We considered the criteria of scientific organization behavior, how the research program is built,
how data collection is carried out, what the object of research is, the subject of research,
how validation, reliability and results are checked.
When we get the results of the research, we must pay attention to these points.
In order for the research to answer the questions that we asked as customers to the providers,
and so that we get the results that were needed.
If we know these main points, these main criteria that should be paid attention to,
then we will be able to assess how much the results of the testing,
how much the results of the organizational investigation carried out by our organization really concern us,
how much the funds that we invested in the research are paid with the results that we received,
how useful these results may seem to us,
and how they will contribute to the development of the organization and its growth,
competitiveness, increase in sales, increase in the development of its commercial niche.
However, this is what concerns the ideological aspects.
Now we should talk about the approaches in organizational behavior,
what are the concepts that have been recommended,
which are based on the criteria that we talked about,
which were studied according to the methodology that we discussed,
and which really give us not just results,
but also methods of impact and methods of correcting the situation that arose in our company.
In this case, we will talk about cognitive and behavioral approaches,
which are most often used in organizational behavior today.
So, we have considered the methodological approaches of scientific research on organizational behavior.
Now we know what variables, what criteria should be paid attention to
when we analyze the materials that are presented to us by research organizations
from the point of view of analysis and study of organizational behavior in our organization.
That is, we can now answer the question of what should be studied and how.
But here comes the most interesting difference between the scientific approach and the pragmatic approach.
As for the scientific approach, in principle, we can stop at this,
because the scientific approach is interested in providing tools for research, methods of obtaining results.
When we talk about practice, of course, this is not enough for us.
It's all very interesting, it's all very good.
However, we have a simple goal as pragmatists.
We must get the final result.
We have our company, we want to increase its performance,
we want to take a higher place in the market,
we want to enter a certain rating,
we want to unite with a company, against a company,
either to achieve certain commercial goals.
Therefore, after the question of how to do it and what to do,
which is, of course, very good and interesting,
the greater importance is given to another question.
What are the ways to change the situation?
Here, again, scientific approaches are useful.
They can be useful to us.
However, as for scientific research,
it is still a search for some general answers,
general abstract descriptions of what can be done, how can be done and why can be done.
We will, of course, use these very approaches.
However, we have one question.
We are not doing research.
We have a specific business.
And now we want to apply these wonderful scientific results to our particular business.